Document how to install Tuist using Homebrew and RTX (#5664)
tuist/tuist: Sources/tuist/tuist.docc/Articles/Tuist/Tuist - Installation.md

# Installation

Learn how to install Tuist in your environment

## Overview

> Tuist is a [command-line application](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface) that you need to install in your environment before you can use it. The installation consists of an executable, dynamic frameworks, and a set of resources (e.g., templates). Although you could manually build Tuist from the sources, we recommend using one of the following installation methods to ensure a valid installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tuist is a [command-line application](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface) that you need to install in your environment before you can use it. The installation consists of an executable, dynamic frameworks, and a set of resources (for example, templates). Although you could manually build Tuist from the sources, we recommend using one of the following installation methods to ensure a valid installation.
```

### Recommended: [rtx](https://github.com/jdx/rtx)

> [rtx](https://github.com/jdx/rtx) is an [asdf-compliant](https://asdf-vm.com) alternative to asdf.

Author: I'm inclined to recommend `rtx` and remove references to `asdf` to lower the cognitive barrier. I had a conversation with @jdx recently, the creator of `rtx`, and the benefits of `rtx` go beyond performance improvements, that might not be that significant. `asdf`. Few things that are worth calling out:
- `asdf` takes a shim-based approach to expose tools in the environment, which are known to be problematic due to the magic that they add to the environment. `rtx` exposes paths directly, so the environment fallbacks work as expected and things are more predictable.
- `rtx` has been mature for quite some time, and the developer experience is top-notch (@jdx was one of the minds behind the Heroku CLI and OCLIF, which we used in the Shopify CLI) so I trust him through this decision.

That said, I'd give `rtx` a shot as a default, and revisit if needed, but I don't think that's going to be necessary.

Both tools deterministically manage and activate system dependencies like Tuist.
If you don't have it installed on your system,
you can use any of these [installation methods](https://github.com/jdx/rtx#installation).
Remember to add the suggested line to your shell, which will ensure the right version is activated when you choose a Tuist project directory in your terminal session.

> Note: rtx is recommended over alternatives like [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) because it supports scoping and activating versions to directories, ensuring every environment uses the same version of Tuist deterministically.

Once installed, you can install Tuist through any of the following commands:

```bash
rtx install tuist@3.36.0      # Install a specific version number

> rtx install tuist@3.36.0      # Install a fuzzy version number

Reviewer: These 2 are the same command 🤔

Author: Ouch, good catch. It should be `rtx install tuist@3`

> Tip: We recommend using `rtx use` in your Tuist projects to pin the version of Tuist across environments. The command will create a `.tool-versions` file containing the version of Tuist.

> > Important: **Tuist Cloud** (<doc:Tuist-Cloud---What>), a closed-source extension of Tuist with optimizations such as binary caching and selective testing, is distributed as a different asdf plugin, tuist-cloud. Note that by using it, you agree to the [Tuist Cloud Terms of Service](https://tuist.io/terms/).

Author: Legally-speaking, you'd be deciding between a program, whose code is entirely open-source and with no liabilities for the community behind it, and a program that is closed source, has a company behind it, and the relationship is bound to some legal terms. A clean-cut is necessary so that users can decide at installation time. Because the cut can't be done at the plugin level since one plugin equals one tool, we need two plugins. At the system level, the CLI has the same name, `tuist`.
